So we have our font family in place.
Let's also put in our background
color background hyphen color.
And once again we can just draw that from
our variables that are up here at the top
of the page.
And we want a kind of a black background,
right?
So we all just say var black.
So that'll make the black background
kinda hard to read our text now.
So let's set our color.
To white.
And by the way, that black and
that white aren't pure 000 black or
FFF white,
those are slightly less than that.
And that's all appeared
declared in our variables.
And then we can also set our font size.
Var, font size Because I like
the text a little bit bigger.
The next thing I wanna do, I want to
think a little bit about these headings.
One of the things that happens
as you start to work with all of
this text that's here on the page.
Is that sometimes you want to modify
the distance between some of these lines.
And by default your headings
have margin assigned to them.
And in fact, the margin assigned to
all of the headings is the same.
It's 1 m, e m.
Which is a relative unit of
measure 1m on an h1 is much
bigger than 1m on a paragraph.
Because it's a sliding scale.
It's very relative to what's going on.
It's the width of a letter m.
So, obviously that's bigger
when the h1 is bigger.
It's smaller when
the paragraph type is smaller.
So one of the things that a lot of people
like to do is to turn off some of these
settings like margin.
And then we can adapt
them a little bit later.
So that is what I'm going to do here.
I'm going to say, for my h1, h2 and h3.
Let's set these up to have a margin of 0.
And we'll see some of that
starts to close together.
But, hi, my name is Jen Kramer, didn't
smash right on top of I teach the web.
Why is that?
Does anyone have any idea why the margin
if I turn off the margin on that h2.
Why didn't those two lines of text
smash on top of each other immediately?
So anyone have any idea?
Okay, so I'll tell you,
though weird trick.
They are block elements
that's absolutely true, but
that doesn't explain why they didn't
line up on top of each other.
This is the weird thing about margin and
CSS that throws a lot of people.
If I have two elements coming together and
I have padding no margin let's
talk about just padding.
I have one REM of padding here I have one
REM of padding here they come together.
What is the distance
between those two elements?
Two REM, right?
1 plus 1 is 2.
In margin land though it's
completely different.
If I have 1 REM of margin and 1 REM of
margin and they come together in CSS,
how far apart are those two elements?
One REM one plus one
equals one in margin land.
I know it's really weird but margins
collapse when they encounter each other.
And if they are different values.
So if I have two rems of margin and
one REM of margin coming
together the two wins.
So we'll wind up with a space
of two rems in between.
Wat's happening here is my paragraph
has one m of margin on it my
h two had one m of margin on it
now it's been turned into a zero.
So I still have a space in
between those two lines.
That space is coming from my paragraph.
Okay, that space is
coming from my paragraph.
So if you're wondering why that's there.
That's the reason why this is margins
only in a vertical direction.
Horizontally margins add just as
you would expect that they would.
Padding in a vertical direction,
adds exactly as you expect it would.
But margin in a vertical direction
has this weird exception to the rule,
they collapse.
Let's also set up our link styling.
Let's start with an A.
And we can assign a color to that,
in this case I'm gonna use a var magenta,
Yeah, there's that nice hot color for
the link.
And right now we just have our link color.
But we don't have a hover state.
So maybe we wanna hover state.
And so to add that,
we'll just add an a:hover after that.
And I'm gonna change that color
to a hot mag, a hot magenta.
It's subtle but it changes color just
a tiny little bit when you hover over it.
And text decoration of none.
So about these links I just
wanted to mention real quick.
Here's the rules on underlines if you want
to make an accessible web page, okay?
If you have text that's inside of a
paragraph the way this particular link is,
okay?
You want to have an underline
displayed by default.
Or some other methodology other than
color that indicates that this is a link.
And the underlined is
a great way to do that.
Because everyone recognizes that
underlined text on the web is a link.
You can turn off that underline on hover.
But when you have your
links in on your web page.
And they are set up this way,
in other words, no underline by default.
You have to actually roll your mouse over
it, maybe the underline appears then.
Remember that 10% of
the population is colorblind.
And you are now calling out your
links specifically only by color.
You wanna be sure that there is
a second way of identifying that link.
That's one of the core
accessibility principles.
So I recommend that for links again inside
of text you always have an underline.
When we go to the navbar the position
in space suggests that this is
a navigation bar.
Plus we'll have markup that
indicates that it's such.
There it is fine to turn off
the underlines on your links.
But inside of your text you really
wanna leave your links underlined.
So that's just sort of some generic
styles here that are gonna carry us
through the rest of our page.
Why do I say they're generic?
Because so far,
we've only use sort of HTML elements.
Okay, in terms of calling out our CSS,
we have not actually applied
any specific classes.
We haven't applied any IDs.
We haven't done any
exceptions to the rule.
So generally speaking,
when you build your CSS.
Build some big generic
things outside of it and
then create your exceptions to the rule.
You're gonna wind up with and
more maintainable page it's
gonna be much easier to manage.